imagine driving through a blizzard somewhere
far off grid in Norway night time is coming in
your wife is pregnant and you have packed as
much food as you would give your toddler for
a lunch break in third grade since the start it
is very obvious that these characters haven't put
much thought into their trip what would you do if
you were snowed in and locked into your car while
it's way below zero outside and you have no way
to escape our two characters whose names by the
way will never get to know wake up in their car
they have spent the night in there and by now
their car is completely covered with snow and ice
we get to know that they were on their way to the
woman's sister and because it was night time and
a disastrous blizzard came in they decided to pull
over and spend the night before continuing their
journey by daylight now if you have any questions
by any chance i know me too why would you make
your journey just before night time and if you
didn't and begin your journey as early as possible
the morning before then why would you go on a 6
hour car drive with your 8 months pregnant wife
all the while being in norway in winter i mean if
you had to do this for whatever odd reason then
at least you would have surely planned a hat no
i think we're snowed under just some ice well not
those two apparently however i do agree with the
following if you ever get into a situation that
makes it too dangerous to keep on driving well
yes waiting for better conditions to arrive can
be life-saving but in extremely cold temperatures
like those you would find around that time in
norway you may just keep the engine on a blizzard
is no joke and being caught up in a blizzard
dozens of miles away from the next town can be
deadly so the first mistake our characters made
was parking the car without keeping the engine on
now some people might argue that that will burn
through all of your fuel and you risk being stuck
there anyway well that's kind of true however
you don't traverse the fjords of norway in winter
without taking any precautions right i mean if you
travel through the death valley in California or
the siberian china and russia or traversing
to sahara north africa whatever pick one
you just know that all these places are notorious
for their harsh and unpredictable environments
and the same goes for the fjords in norway during
winter therefore it is expected to start your
journey with a certain level of precaution and
that of course entails extra fuel for your car
in fact if we consider that our characters are not
norwegian and that they don't know the environment
the sheer number of mistakes they have made before
the movie has even started is quite insane for
example they have not packed more than a handful
of nuts and one sandwich they have only 2 liters
of water they obviously don't have any extra
fuel they don't have a miller blanket and they
don't have a heater plus their phone yes they only
have one is low on battery now all this screams
complete ignorance you don't need a blizzard to
be stuck in the middle of nowhere an engine fail
a flat tire your wife going into labor crashing
an animal all of that is possible and yet it seems
like they have not considered any of that on top
of all those missed points and miscalculations our
characters don't know any better than blaming each
other i'm sorry baby i'm just trying to get my
head around this okay i knew we should have kept
on driving amazing what they do at first is going
through their provisions next to a box of matches
and some candles they have enough food for 12 days
and a map with an approximate location where they
are now if you ask me there are two options here
either you stay inside the car and hope that
someone will drive by and take note of you
or break through the windows and continue by foot
both ways have their pros and cons and i know what
i would do but what would you do i'll give you a
quick moment to figure it out okay so what i would
do is stay in there for a set number of days we
have enough food to comfortably get by for two to
three days we also have a lot of water available
if we consider that we are completely snowed in
so if we find a way to open the windows just a
tiny bit we could gather enough water to get by as
well however three days would be my limit because
first of all it is obviously very cold inside this
vehicle and that won't really change over time and
second our food is only enough for so many days
meaning at some point we will get so weak day
by day that any sort of intervention on our side
just won't work anymore and therefore before we
would completely become dependent on a third party
intervention i would try waiting inside first and
if nobody arrives i would opt for option 2 and
break a window to get out of here however breaking
a window might not be the only option we have
at a later point in the movie our guy here uses
a candle to defrost a window to let it down
and scratch off some ice to drink it later
smart move but why just use one candle i
would use four to five candles and toast this
window until i can freely open the damn thing
if i can find a way to open a window completely i
will be able to scratch through the eyes without
having to break a window meaning if i then
get through the ice i can manually defrost
the ice from the outside of the car and then
climb back in and close the window again
having a phone with me albeit low in battery
would also convince me to try this out
connection outside is arguably better than inside
here and of course i wouldn't make a call alright
like our characters that uses way too much
battery i would send out an emergency sms
that i can pre-write and send it out to multiple
people at once but what do our characters do
15 days my good lord never would i stay in there
for 15 days i get that it's more comfortable
inside but the problem with being comfortable is
you don't really get ahead yes staying inside does
prolong your life but if nobody passes by then
you are just going to starve to death comfort
zone is crippling okay you should forge your own
way rather than waiting for others to rescue you
those that succeed are those that venture out
despite losing comfort and if people 10 000 years
ago would survive naked ice age then you can
do it too i mean look at this scene right here
that's that's just uh now look uh i get it okay
their behavior is clearly motivated by this story
right here because a similar thing happened to
this swedish guy and he survived in his car for
two months before he was rescued and that is
remarkable but in my honest opinion you need a
stupid amount of luck to survive this story kudos
to this guy though i guess his survival skills are
on a different level i hope he's doing fine in the
case of our characters though i don't think this
is the right way our characters have at no point
actually studied the map they have and that is
where i and every other reasonable person would
begin right you need to calculate how long it
would take you to walk to the next town that's the
starting point also if you had to break a window
to leave the car then your pregnant wife could no
way join you she has to stay back and that is a
problem but if you can make it to town within six
hours by foot then she should be okay at least in
theory the reason why i keep referring to six
hours by the way is that this is the shortest
period of daylight in late december in norway at
least in the southern parts and since we can see
that they do have daylight we can assume that they
are not in the northern parts otherwise it would
be pitch dark 24 7 at least almost and if you're
scandinavian then feel free to correct me if i'm
wrong i guess the thing though that i'm hinting
on here is that if he can't make it a civilization
within sun hours then he will most likely die
as soon as darkness creeps in good luck finding
your way out of here no chance if you make this
move then you have to isolate the broken window
to leave your pregnant wife as comfortably back
as possible if you don't she will keep reminding
you for the rest of your life and you don't want
that there are quite a few things you can do to
cover your car window effectively during winter if
you put layers up on layers on the broken area you
will be able to insulate airflow quite a bit if
you don't have any tape at hand to fixate stuff
then i would put layers of snow from the outside
over it it may seem counterintuitive but that's
also how an igloo works the most dangerous thing
about a broken window in winter is the constant
airflow that chills to inside even further and
with this method you can minimize that risk
and for the guy that leaves well going by foot
is not a safe bet but it might be your only
chance if you decide to do this you want to start
early in the morning perhaps even before sunrise
pack your map if necessary break the window
isolate it with the techniques from before figure
out where north is and then move your little ass
to figure out where north is without having your
precious congolese cobalt nourished smartphone at
hand you have to figure out the direction without
a compass but in our case here we have a map we
also know the street on which we are and therefore
knowing where north is is no problem at all we
have everything at hand to make an escape possible
however our characters don't and here is what i
think about this i think people who don't leave
their comfort zone forget how quick life is able
to turn around for better or worse you might go on
walking six hours through the blistering cold your
feet numbing your face losing all its sensation
and you barely give up but the thought of your
loved ones keeps you going and just before you
can make it across the finish line you may fall
onto your knees your vision blurs into darkness
just to be reversed with the brightest and most
beautiful light you have ever seen and before
you can understand what is actually happening
you find yourself on the back of articuno now
obviously if that happens then you hopefully pick
up your why first but here's what happens in the
movie instead no mystical pokemon experience
and no dmt machine elves okay but we got this
now some people might call that magical as well so
i don't know however question what is worse than
being caged inside a tiny space with your spouse
for days on end that's right a crying newborn baby
on top of that and before you come at me at full
speed i love kids okay i really do i love kids
everywhere but airplanes restaurants and when
locked in frozen cars i hate when that happens
but let's give a round of applause for this
dude to courageously maneuver his precious wife
through this painstaking event he even removes
the placenta what a hero now where am i going with
this well my fellow breast milk people how is it
going listen breast milk is the thing to feed on
in this situation with this you will probably last
for well over a month i never thought today would
come that i would research breast milk but oh boy
this stuff is kind of special it's the feminine
nectar off the go just kidding but this drink sure
is more energizing than red bull look at this fats
proteins amino acids anti-inflammatory agents and
a solid 70 calories per 100 milliliter furthermore
a woman produces up to a liter on average after
two weeks of given birth that's not per titty by
the way we're talking netto here now here's a few
more things to mention here apparently the breast
milk before the baby is born is actually called
colostrum now don't ask me about the details
but apparently it's even more nutritious than
actual breast milk and is available at halfway
through the pregnancy already meaning even before
the baby was born here they could have indulged in
this very out of the box survival technique who
is bear grylls again i don't know now people who
really love to nitpick may point out that due to
stress production of breast milk may suffer and
that is true but let's just forget about this okay
i like my idea now in the movie our characters are
blessed with a newborn the days pass relentlessly
though and they hit the 20-day mark and as we
expected they lost the majority of their energy
too and the screaming newborn definitely isn't a
help neither the biggest problem though is that
at this point they have been frozen in for such
a long time that they are stuck in a solid block
of ice which is much much harder to break through
than it was in the beginning that's something
that supports my set day plan as well if you
know that you will leave this place in for
example 3 days you can actively prevent your
chosen window from freezing by day 20 there were
still burning candles that means they have many
available and therefore with toasting the windows
continuously during the first few days you would
not just heat up the interior considerably but you
would also make it much harder for ice to settle
on the outside of this area now obviously they
haven't done that and well this is what happens
in case you wonder why he took off his clothes
well that is because of his hypothermia a
known symptom of hypothermia is that those
suffering from it start to sweat and become
really hot despite the fact that their body
temperature falls below 35 degrees celsius
and that accelerates their impending death
even more and that is what happens our guy here
dies now we could go into cannibalism but let's
skip that one because it's obvious and i'm about
to have dinner too okay but of course that is a
possibility and it would keep you alive for quite
some additional time now by now it's somewhere
around day 24 and our character is still stuck
although now arguably alone she is starting to
hallucinate and talk with her deceased husband
and we can't really blame her for that i wouldn't
have much hope left neither however i still think
leaving the igloo is the best way to go from here
on out but what if the ice wall between you and
freedom is so thick that you can't break through
well i suggest you pee on it you might not be able
to pee a black hole into the ice but with the
bottle opener from before we are able to carve
through it it will take some time of course but
it is entirely possible and by now she hasn't done
anything for 24 days straight so i don't think
this plan is too much of a burden at this point
we would all try to get out at all costs obviously
in the movie however something else happens the
sun shines so bright the ice melts away all around
the car what a pleasant surprise now here's the
real bummer though she with some struggle makes it
out and starts walking remember how in the worst
case we only have 6 hours available well guess
what she makes it to the next house within a few
hours only and that after 24 days of hell giving
birth to a child and even carrying that baby in
her arms all the while it's freezing cold that's
a little hard to believe but it especially means
that if they had broken out of the car at the
beginning they would have saved an easy 20 days
had a great story to tell and the dude would have
certainly survived but i would like to ask you
what would have you done differently how
would you survive being frozen into your car
let me know and as always i appreciate you
for being here and i see you in the next one